---
title: 71% of my agegroup was for Remain.
layout: post
---

I've made a decision that this blog will be far from purely technical. If you want my engineering or product opinions then you can hire me; this is my personal writing. This decision is somewhat forced by having such a toxic national debate to discuss.

**I tried to make some thoughtful points about Brexit on Tuesday night, but found it a bit difficult.**

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I tried to write something about Brexit here and now I&#39;ve gone to find the gin.</p><p>&mdash; Michael Mokrysz (@46bit) <a href="https://twitter.com/46bit/status/846845924991254528">March 28, 2017</a></p></blockquote>
<!--more-->
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

[71% of my agegroup was for Remain.](https://yougov.co.uk/news/2016/06/27/how-britain-voted/) I was very much for Remain; I'm *still* very much for Remain. Yet with Article 50 now triggered it seems fairly sure we're headed 'out' in some form.

**In the many years to come I hope that people can draw back together and heal these wounds.** But I doubt I will come to think this was the right path. The outcome of this process may have surprise upsides, but that doesn't necessarily justify the means.

**I don't expect I'll 'get behind Brexit' for the same reason I'd not pick up a copy of the Daily Mail**: it's a crafted narrative giving the worst of humanity. I hope that we'll regret this as a nation. But I'm not sure that's the way it'll go.

In York I've overheard discussions as to whether people want to fill out 85-page residence forms or go find somewhere more willing to have them - particularly relevant here at the University, when research is often funded and conducted on a continental or worldwide scale.

### We already had issues

**The sheer difficulty of the process is widely predicted to stall any other governing for several years.** And there are challenges ahead:

* The SNP would like to revote on independence and Northern Ireland's status is unknowable. I wish the people of Scotland all the best whatever they decide, and hypothetically similar for NI.
* The housing crisis eating working people's incomes will continue on.
* The slide towards buying later will make saving for retirement or any other purpose ever more distant, making us poorer.
* University fees will start to creep upwards at the 'higher quality' Universities, to encourage students to balance debt against opportunity.
* High wages will move to the Continent for access reasons.
* The NHS, its staff and its patient may suffer terribly from a lack of nurses.
* Civil liberties and leglisation to protect the world may or may not go in a worse direction.

**If the Brexit ordeal is a snapshot of how our highly-developed country will cope with these stressors, the bitterness might become all-consuming.**

### There are severe problems to come

We're also headed for quite a few anthropogenic disasters. None of these should read surprising:

* Temperatures will rise.
* All coral reefs on Earth may die; ocean acidification will wreak wider havoc ([source](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2010/dec/07/coral-reefs-disappear-lifetime).)
* Glaciers will melt, leaving rivers emptier in the summer.
* Crop failures will grow.
* Extreme climate events will worsen.
* Methane releases from permafrost may grow.
* Some of the Middle East may experience unlivable heatwaves ([source](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2015/oct/26/extreme-heatwaves-could-push-gulf-climate-beyond-human-endurance-study-shows).)
* Seas will rise in ways outside our experience.
* Europe's population will dwindle. Africa's population will boom. Asia's importance will continue to grow. The USA will have a white minority for the first time.
* People in poorer countries will continue to seek better lives, or any life at all.

This is a depressing list - I could list as many *good*, hopeful things just as easily. The point is that these things matter, a lot, to our future. To these problems, Brexit is at best a distraction.

I've started making notes as to where I want more detailed posts to go on this. But a good starting point will be to look at the shape the UK's people are actually in, and what the future held, and what it might now hold.
