---
title: ❄ Blizzards 🌨
layout: post
---

It's been quite the Winter for snow in North London. My first winter here has been just as lucky as
was my first in York.

<!--more-->

<!-- FIXME: Picture of snowman in York -->

I live in a city, I don't drive and I rely on my feet, bicycles and public transport to get around.
Unless I need to cycle somewhere, I'm in the perfect position to enjoy and get excited by snow. And
I have!

<!-- FIXME: Picture of Stroud Green in the snow -->

I thought I'd gotten lucky with a few days of snow in early December. I threw some snowballs,
admired dozens of snowpeople in Finsbury Park (no time to build one, sadly) and got to feel festive.
Getting another week of snow wasn't something I hoped for.

It's been a blizzard on my hill at times, watching snowflakes zoom down or snow from the ground
whipped up into the air. That's been kind of cool, but also a little scary sometimes. Living in a
conservation zone is really nice in some ways, but old-fashioned sash windows really aren't airtight
and I've had to improvise to seal up some holes.

I have a habit of visiting New England in December, a time of year when it gets awfully cold
weather and blizzards. Last December the wind chill one daygot down to about -22°C. Another day
I walked about six miles through half of a foot of snow, from Cambridge, MA to Downtown Boston.
We haven't quite had that here yet but 4 days of snowing and a week of cold weather make me feel
like I'm there. It feels great.

<!-- FIXME: Picture of the horde of snowpeople -->

But that's not the whole story. The cold giving us snow should be growing sea ice in the Arctic. We
might be having fun (unless you're trapped on a train overnight!) but Polar Bears in the Arctic will
have less hunting territory. I don't know how to change the vast problem that is reducing CO₂
emissions. We're not willing to have lower living standards for it, especially when they're already
eroding, even if there was a way to negotiate that.

It's a tragedy and, whatever happens to human civilization, much of what made this world so amazing
will be changed.
